Hey welcome back so how did you get on with
that challenge? I hope you've got all your
menus set up, I'm going to show you how I
do it in this video, we are going to be customising
the win and lose screens, adding a new options
scene for the first time, it's going to be
blank for now but it's going to have two buttons
on it just "back" and "defaults" so once your
in options you have the option, excuse the
double use to go back to the start scene or
to click defaults which will in future load
from defaults, for now it'll do nothing and
then we'll have a level 01 with a win and
lose button on it. Temporary win and lose
conditions until the script can do it; and
then test that all the navigation works properly.
Now if you've already got yours working let's
just briefly talk about the level manager
before you skip through this video so we are
continuing to use the level manager as we
have been as a prefab. Why? Well let me show
you let me just do the level manager bit first,
let's go to the first scene, the splash scene.
Let's take a look at our level manager, and
I'm going to just pop into its script briefly.
Now one thing you may have noticed already
is that its always going to auto-load the
next level and what we really want to be able
to do is disable that so its a simple if autoLoadNextLevelAfter
equals 0 then, what are we going to do? Well
I think it would be nice just to log to say
that that's happened, we can just say Debug,Log,
auto load disabled.
OK, that's fine else, we'll do what we were
going to do anyway which is just invoke and
just hope your designer doesn't put a negative
number in and cause some weird problems but
it'll just error out. OK, fantastic. So now
that modification to the level manager just
means that if we put 0 into autoLoadNextLevel
let's see what happens. OK so we get an error
on line 17 can't convert float to bool. So
can you see what I've done on line 17 there?
I've said if autoLoadNextLevel equals zero
that's an assignment, equals equals is the
comparison. OK, it was trying to set zero
which it was treating as a bool into a float
which wasn't working. So, try equals equals,
there you go, and it says on the log, autoload
disabled right? And then yet if we had set,
say, I think we had 3 seconds, and play, now
the autoload will work, there you go, fine.
Now, another thing to say about the level
manager. It's about prefabbing it and how
we use it. Let's take a look here, we have
an instance of a level manager here on this
splash screen. Now ultimately I like to see
most things in a scene being prefabs - at
least certainly things that are going to be
used somewhere else. So let's go through them.
Persistent music, does that need to be a prefab?
No, because we're only going to have one of
them in the entire game because it persists.
Ok, level manager, should that be a prefab?
Yes, it makes lots of sense for the level
manager to be a prefab and now that it's set
up how we want it, let's prefab it. How do
we do that? Well just drag it to your assets.
That makes the blue prefab box, and I'm going
to put it in a folder called, imaginatively,
can you guess the name? Yes, prefabs. Fantastic.
Alright, so we have a prefab level manager
indicated two ways. Slightly blue, very hard
to see, secondly you get information about
the prefab at the top of the inspector. Main
camera, do we need to make that prefab? Not
really, there's nothing special about it.
Canvas is pretty unique to this scene, and
the same with the event system and load sound.
So actually we're reasonable in only having
the level manager prefabbed here. Over to
the start scene, you'll notice we have a level
manager in the start scene but it's all wrong.
There's no script, and it hasn't got the right
version. Let's just kill it, and this is where
we just take our prefab, and with some confidence
drop it in. Now we have the right level manager
and we just take off the autoLoadNextLevel.
Notice the autoLoadNextLevel goes bold the
moment you change its value from 3 to 0. That's
saying "this is different to the prefab" which
is fine. You may not want your prefab to auto
load next level after three seconds so you
can change it back at the prefab if you want.
OK.
So they're the dependencies so teh prefab
now won't auto load next levels by default
and this particular one also isn't. We could
always revert to the prefab now and it won't
be bold now because its the same as the prefab.
Bold means that this value is different to
the prefab.
Now you might quite rightly ask do we need
a level manager in this scene at all? Well,
yes and no. Let's take a look at the buttons
to answer that question. On the buttons we
need to pass in to the OnClick event either
a level manager prefab or a level manager
instance and I would suggest that you always
now in future pass a level manager prefab
in because it works fine, but we do need to
have a level manager there so for instance
let's just do a test, let's load level string
00 Splash from here and let's try taking the
level manager out of the level. You see the
choice is, if you're not changing this auto-load
next level if you're sticking with the default
value you can actually do away with the level
manager. Let's try it. In fact let's start
from the start scene, the splash scene. Let's
see what we've got.
We come in after one second, no level manager
in here, click the start button it goes back
to the start, splash screen. I want to show
you something on that splash scene while we're
here, you should never go back to the splash
screen. Why not? Because look, if we pause
here we've got two persistent music players.
So that's the downside of having taken away
this singleton pattern and this check but
we're never going to go back to this splash
screen, that's the whole point of injecting
it at this point. Remember the diagram where
I showed you that we never actually go back
to that splash screen on the left there.
Alright, so that's enough said about the music
player. Hopefully, sorry the level manager.
Hopefully you understand that you only need
to inject a level manager prefab into the
scene if you want to change the autoLoadNextLevel
so that's going to save you some time so that's
fantastic. Alright, so now let's whip through
and get all this done. So we're going to need
an options button in here so let me just clone
a start button and call it options. I might
simplify start button; well options button
actually, yeah let's be specific.
OK so we have an options button, where is
it, well it's sitting right on top are these
two spaced out? Or too near together? Yes,
far too near, let's just get in, space them
out. I'll do this quite quick, I'm sure you're
all very aware of what I'm doing here. So
options goes there, the UI element isn't wide
enough to cater for it, that's juts fine,
Start Options, Quit. so what does start do?
Well, start is going to load a level, and
it's going to go to level 1. We don't have
a level 1. How are we going to name our level
1?
Well I'm suggesting this slightly strange
setup where we say 02 as a prefix so they
sort nicely and then level zero one. So I'm
going to use that. I'm going to duplicate
the start scene because it already has all
the UI set up as I want it. So, 02 level_01.
One of the benefits of this is that if we
duplicate this we continue to get levels numbered
in order so look how quickly we can roll out
levels. Quite nice, eh? Alright, so lets go
into level one and customise it. I'm going
to take away the background for now, image
altogether, I'm going to take away the title
and the subtitle and just end up with two
buttons which are going to be win and lose.
Win condition and let's make the text the
same as the button, win condition like that,
maybe move it to the bottom left, or the bottom
right. It's kind of making progress, it's
forward so that's fine; and then let's have
a lose condition button. Hey I think I may
have spelt lose right this time round, we
don't need to get hammered in the forums.
If I'm lucky, I may not have done, who cares.
It's a word, you get what I mean.
Win condition, lose condition. So we have
these buttons now, that's great. So what's
going to happen on the win condition - just
wire this up really quickly, well we're going
to go to a Win screen which doesn't exist
at the moment but what are we going to call
it? Well we have a plan, so let's use our
plan. Here's our plan.
So 03-a win, 03-b lose. So let's just make
those levels?Or just at least wire up those
buttons right now in a hopeful way. 03a win
and 03b lose. OK, fantastic. So, let's make
those levels as well, now, if you've already
done all this, you really are, I'm not going
to tell you anything exciting in the rest
of this video. I specifically put the important
stuff at the front which is where we talk
about the level manager, why we prefab it
and your options there. Now I'm literally
just going to go through these and set these
levels up so you're absolutely welcome to
keep on watching I want to put it in for completeness
but it is entirely up to you.
Look at the options. If you win you've got
the option to start or quit, found a plus
and minus sign there that's a bit of fun,
some sort of keyboard combination led to that;
and then we'll go for a lose screen, we can
be more specific about this later. By the
way, if you have a font that auto-capitalises
like I have, I tend to be careful that I still
write it correctly in terms of my title case
over here because if we ever change the font
to a different one it mean that it will come
out right so just a tip there.
Alright, lets just test this navigation; win
and lose condition navigation, lose condition
- OK the old chestnut about build order, I'm
actually going to finish off the levels before
I start adding things to the build order,
I don't want to keep going in to build order,
so we have - we need a level two and that's
about it actually. Oh, and options, the crucial
one. 01b options, let's do that now. See how
this makes it quite clear? It kind of shows
the sequence in the scenes - we go from the
zero scene that we never go back to to all
the one scenes i.e. the start and options
to all the twos, let's have another couple
of levels, you see how easy that was with
duplicate, and then the threes are about the
lose and the loop back.
OK so just the options screen now, I said
we were going to have a back button
we were going to have a defaults button, so
let's do that. Perfect. Defaults, back, we
can ditch the start on this one. Immediately
start naming and changing your titles, choose
your weapon or something. OK defaults and
back. OK we'll worry about the spacing of
all these things a little bit later, what
I'm trying to do is quickly get to the correct
navigation order. How's level two looking?
Fine, level three? Looking fine. Great. OK.
Now, let's add all this to the build order,
grab all your scenes there, just drop them
in the build order, get rid of any duplicates,
check that they load sensibly, splash start,
two three you see they automatically end up
in the build order in the correct order as
well or a reasonable order which is great.
Now let's try. Let's just start in the splash
screen. One second delay. Sure it's too short
but that's fine. Options takes you to the
wrong place so, you just literally go through,
wire up all these buttons properly. So, 01b
options, in fact while we're here let's check
all the buttons, start button should take
you not to the splash screen any more but
to 02 level 01. Fine, quit should do an application
dot quit, doesn't at the moment, so quit needs
a handler what are we going to give it as
the handler? Yeah the level manager prefab
that's the chestnut OK. So level manager quit
request.
So let's just cycle through the buttons. Start
goes to level two, 01b options, that looks
good, so that scene is fine just work through
your scenes now.
What is defaults going to do? Nothing, at
the moment, that's absolutely fine. It's not
doing nothing, so let's make it do nothing.
OK we don't want it doing unpredictable stuff,
back what's back going to do? It is going
to do something. We give it the prefab and
it's going to take us back to the what's the
name of the scene - 01a start. Fantastic,
so do they look right? Nothing and 01a start,
cool, and then your levels should, in theory
have the buttons both ding the right thing
because we copied the scene, yup, Win scene,
start button.
Now, the start button. Are you annoyed with
the start button yet? I'm annoyed with the
start button, I'm annoyed by the fact that
I'm redoing this start button a hundred times.
What are we going to do? How are we going
to get around that? If we're redoing something
regularly, we prefab it. So let's just prefab
the start button, why not? There it is, you
see this start button in this scene already
does what we want it to do. If it's going
to take us to the start menu why not just
have it as a prefab?So on the win scene I've
already got a start button here, I can take
it out of the scene altogether now if I drag
the start button prefab straight into the
hierarchy it will actually come in in the
place it was on the other scenes which I'm
happy with and you can see it's blue now it's
a prefab. Quit button. Well again, the Quit
button should be prefab. Let's go find it
in a scene that it works OK in, like here,
prefab it, yeah and then we use the prefab
so now we don't need to keep wiring up these
buttons the same, it's kind of crazy just
delete the button with confidence, drag the
prefab across and it will come in with the
position it had in the other scenes for consistency
and with exactly the same wiring.
Why do we call it wiring? There are no wires
here, just lines of code. So this one I can
get even more time back I can delete my start
button and my quit button. Go to the prefabs
and drop them in. See starting to speed up
our development, which is what we want. OK
let's have a final test. Oh hang on, there's
one thing I've forgotten. The music I want
to make sure that on level one I get some
different music so go to your splash screen
and what we want to do, how big an array do
we need here in the level music change array?
Well, look at your build settings, when do
we want to change the music? We're going to
change it on level index three, so we need
a four element array, and then we're going
to change it again for win and possibly lose,
it's entirely up to you what you have; what
sort of sound you play on win and lose, but
I think I'm going to make my array a full
eight element array now so I've got complete
choice over what I put where so let's make
it an eight element array in your persistent
music music manager array and then pick myself
a quick bit of music for the game, fr actually
playing the game. So I'm going to go to glitchthegame,
find a piece of music for the actual playing
that I like the sound of it's under downloads,
music, what shall we go with? That's a bit
too noddy. That's a bit of fun, why not moon
music? So I'm going to have moon music on
level one now of course you can have different
music on every level, but that's entirely
up to you. Let's get it into the sounds, you
know how to do this, Import, new asset, moon
musc. In it comes, may take a while turn off
3D sound and apply. Fine.
I don't know if it's long enough, it's going
to be interesting to see what happens when
this loops, let's listen to that music a bit
carefully OK so go to your persistent music
manager, bring in the moon music under which
element. Again you're going to need to look
in your build settings, this does keep everything
in one place which is nice, element 3, you
see how these correspond if I line them up
like this, splash screen is element 0, Start
menu goes to Spooky Groddle, element three
goes to... yeah? Very easy.
Moon music goes into level three, let's try
it now. Test our system. Short delay on purpose,
so we can hurry up development. Background
music plays, go into options it continues
to play unbroken, go back and the music restarts
that's OK, it's kind of resetting you I'm
back at the start menu, yeah?
Fine, start. Then the game music starts. Cool,
lose condition, no change, because we haven't
told it to change. Start, good, win condition,
you win, start, hey - we have a set of music.
Now you might want different music on the
completion - you know when you win or lose
but this video's getting rather long so I'm
going to leave it at that for now and I might
drop in some other music in a future video
just for the win and lose scenes; but you
get the idea, let's just revise the slide
at the beginning of this section and make
sure that we've achieved everything that we
wanted to.
Customising Win and Lose done; option scene
blank for now done, back and default done,
level one done we actually went a step further
and went to two and three and we tested it
all works properly. Awesome! Enjoy that, show
it off to your friends, you can even share
this by the way if you like now you can just
say guys, what do you think of my menu? When
you've got this far why not just upload this
project to GameBucket and share it? Sure it
doesn't do anything, but at least people can
comment on your graphics, on your choice of
music, and your delays and everything else.
Cool, congratulations and I'll see you soon.